## BG 2.44

भोगैश्वर्यप्रसक्तानां तयापहृतचेतसाम् ।
व्यवसायात्मिका बुद्धिः समाधौ न विधीयते ॥ ४४ ॥

https://vedabase.io/en/library/bg/2/44/

### Discussion

* **We have 2 ways in life**
    * one is Bhoga and Aishwaraya
    * other is Samadhi (Self realization)
        * A person who will go on Bhoga and Aishwaraya path naturally cannot go on the path of self realization.
        * It is not possible to walk on both of these together. They are opposite directions. 180 degree to each other.
        * Samadhau na vidhiyate.
        * A person who desires enjoyment, The path of self realization is not possible for him.
* **Purdarika Vidyanidhi Pastime query**
    * He is in so much opulance, how how is a maha bhagvat devotee?
    * Krsna says that you should have have Aasakti on Indriya Bhoga. But whatever is coming on its own according to its prarabdha, we can accept it.
    * We should be satisfied in whatever is coming on its own accord.
    * We should not have a special attraction and aasakti for it. 
    * We should not give our whole life for Bhoga and Aishwarya.
    * Prabhupad's example.
        * He was not attached to Bhoga and Aishwarya.
                * Morar ji desai's interaction with Prabhupada's example.
                    * I am Sadhu and you should come to a Sadhu.
                * He has both Bhoga and Aishwarya. (Cars, Palaces, Servents with white skins)
                * But he was steady in Aatma Sakshatkar.
* **We have 2 problems**
    * **Bhoga**
    * **Tyaga (Aishwarya)**
        * Sometimes we give up Bhoga with purpose that i will be glorified as a tyagi. this is also another kind of sense gratification for ego.
        * this is suble enjoyment.
        * Sense gratification and KC go ill together.
        * If one thinks that he can attached to Sense gratification and they can do Bhakti along with it. It is not possible.
        * Jo bhog apne aap aate hai, aasani se. We dont need to give them up.
            * We need to regulate it.
            * E.g. If we have facility to eat satisfying food, we should accept it. But we must regulate it. Just becuase there is facility, we should not overeat.
            * If tomorrow it is not there. Then also we should not be attached to it.
        * Bhog me aasakt na hone par bhi. We should not go after fame.
            * If someone says that we are such a nice devotee. Then what should be our consciousness.
            * I have no qualification. Only by mercy of my Spiritual master and Vaishnavas i can do something.   
* **With Bhakti all opulance comes up BG 18.78**
    * Yatra yogeshwaro Krishna...
    * **But we should not be attached to that opulance which comes as a result of Bhakti**
* **How to have that steady mindset where we are steadily going on the path of self realization and not of sense gratification**
    * Comparison of different pleasures in this world.
        * **Sense pleasure**
            * Like a drop of water in a desert.
        * **Pleasure of Brahman realization**
            * It can drown the desert.
        * **Pleasure of Bhakti
            * It is boundryless, bottomless and shoreless ocean. 
            * But it can be understood only by experience, not by imagination.
            * Bhakti is not process of imagination, it is process of experiencing it yourself.
            * Pleasure of soul can drown a small place only.
        * How to experience Bhakti right now.
            * In what form you have Krishan right now.
                * Hari Naam
                * Other devotees.
                * Geeta and other Shashtras
                * Bhakti marga
        * When we go ahead like this with vyavasayatimka buddhi. 
            * We shuold accept what is coming out of its own accord, but we do not do multiple endeavours. 
            * We should endeavour for only one thing. that is Bhakti.
                * Japa.
                * 4 rules
                * Study of scriptures.
                * Association of devotees.
                * Vigraho ki seva, Bhoga.
            * 24 hours our endeavours should be connected to Krishna. That is vyavasayatmika buddhi.
            * Avayasayatimka buddhi
                * guided by mind. It goes to many places in a single day.
                * Mind tells thousand things a day.
            * vyavasayatmika buddhi
                * Path given by Guru, Sadhu and Shashtra
                * Any time of the day, you should do your duty of Bhakti.
                * E.g.  
                    * Doing Japa in Bramha Muhurtha.
                    * Eating only Prasadam offered to Krishna.
            
